[NEW RULES] - Define author's responsibility when presentational roles conflict arises (#2195)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: _rules/aria-presentational-role-not-focusable-18pg11.md

---
id: 18pg11

> name: ARIA presentational role not focusable

Reviewer: See above, the [Element marked as decorative is not exposed](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/46ca7f/#marked-as-decorative) rule covers this.

I think we can debate splitting the rule up into the two rules you propose. I'd personally lean towards leaving this as is, since the "not exposed" rule is already approved by AG, but if others feel there are good reasons to deprecate it in favor of this I'm open to that conversation.

Author: I see the point. 

The intent was to cover a specific ARIA requirement in detail and comprehensively (Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution) to guarantee authors are clear on what to do in these scenarios. 

I'm uncertain about the next steps. 

The other two existing ARIA requirements are rather more vague but do cover the necessary aspects. If we decide to revert these new rules, we'll still need to add examples to the existing rules.

## Accessibility Support

A common browser, even though an interactive element with explicit presentational role is not focusable, still expose the element with its implicit role.

## Background

While user agents consistently handle elements undergoing [Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][], authors bear the responsibility of preventing such conflicts.

### Bibliography

- [WAI-ARIA 1.2 - Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution][Presentational Roles Conflict Resolution]

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The `button` element with role `none` is not [focusable][].

```html
<button role="none" disabled>Submit</button>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The `img` element with role `presentation` is not [focusable][].

```html
<img role="presentation" src="" alt="">
```

#### Passed Example 3

The `div` element with role `img` has an [inherited semantic role][] of `none` and is not [focusable][].

```html
<button>
  <div role="img"></div>
</button>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The `button` element with role attribute value `presentation` is [focusable][].

```html
<button role="presentation">Submit</button>
```

#### Failed Example 2

> The `button` element with role attribute value `none` is not tabbable but still [focusable][].

Author: ```suggestion
The `button` element with role attribute value `none` is not reachable via keyboard but still [focusable][].
```
